Author: Wei Dong, etc. from Princeton U
Published in FAST'11
Date:09/06/2016

For data centers, they need to store the backup data for some time. In addition, in order to meet the high demand of 
throughput, a cluster of backup storage systems needs to be deployed. However, it is hard to get a linear performance 
growth. Since dedup should be done on each storage server where the storage hardware like HDD and SSDs are deployed. 
To this end, routing is a critical technique to achieve high throughput and dedup ratio. 

So for dedup cluster, two things are important. (1) risk of creating duplicates. (2) scalable performance since the system 
might overload a single node by routing too much data to it. 

In order to solve this, the methods used in this paper are. (1) a stateless technique that routes based on 64-byte from the super-
chunk. although the dedup ratio is indeed lower than small chunks. However, the dedup ratio only decreases by around 10%. 
(2) a stateful method by using the information of how previous data is routed. 

this paper is still working on backup scenario where throuhgput and capcity are the main concerns. 

The bin concept in this paper is very similar to the virtual node in distributed key-value store. 

the routing unit of this paper is super-chunk which is consecutive chunks. It is necessary to do for supporting high 
throughput. 

Routing methods, 
(1) stateless routing
using hashing (sampled) would lead to similar but not identical data being assinged to the same node. 

the main advantages of stateless routing are (1) reduced overhead for recording node assignments. (2) reduced requirements 
for recovering this state after a system failure. 

(2) stateful routing
an interesting detail about this method. assigment cannot be made just because the super chunk matches the certain node 
much more than the others. there should be a threshold. Because if not, a certain node might be very hot (data skew). But
this method cannot solve the problem completely. So a method considering the load is introduced. 

Experimental methodology

trace-driven simulation
data-skew: the ratio of the largest node's physical storage usage to the average usage. 

sparse-indexing can be regarded as sampling. but it is on single-node dedup system. when it is used 


